Now let's think about how we might create a U.V. map of all of the objects at once.
So instead of having just the door here with its own U-V map and the door knob and the plate with their
own U-V maps we can combine them all together so that all of the U.V. islands are here all within the
0 to 1 space.
So what I'll do is go into object mode and just select everything with the 8 key and then I'll press
control J to combine everything into one object.
So now if we tab into edit mode and select all of our faces you can see that here all the U-V islands
all compressed into the zero to one space but overlapping each other.
And this is a problem we can't have that.
So as we saw previously what we can do is select all of the U-V islands and press control a to average
Island scale.
I'll do that and then press control P to pack Islands and there we go.
Now what this has done is this has made all of our U-V islands proportionally the same size as they
are here in the 3D view we can of course adjust this a bit if we want say the door knobs to take up
more of the resolution space in our U.V. map with U-V islands selection enabled.
We could come through and select our islands representing the door and we could scale those down with
the key and maybe move those into a corner and then scale these up as well.
But let's talk about these door knobs now do we really need to take up space for both of the door knobs.
I'm thinking that we're only ever going to see one door knob or the other.
We aren't really ever going to see both of them at the same time.
So what we could do is optimize our U-V map a little bit better and have just one collection of U-V
islands representing both of the door knobs.
So how to do that.
Well first of all I think what we should do is now that we've combined all of our objects together into
one.
Let's go ahead and select this door knob here just one of them and select this with the L key.
Now we should also mention when we're using this LTE key select We have the ability to the limit our
selection by material or seam or Uvas.
Let me show you what that means if we selected this part of the door knob here with the L key and then
turned on seam.
You can see that what happens is only the part within that seam has been selected.
Now I can press shift and click to turn that off but if you're selecting areas with the L key and it
isn't all being selected check the delimit buttons here and you can always turn them off by pressing
shift and then clicking the button.
All right so I'm going to hover over this piece and press the key.
And now I'm going to hit X and delete faces.
Now that that is gone let's go ahead and remove the map this I'll press you and unwrap.
Now there we go.
We can test out the unwrap by switching to conformal and that changes it a little bit but not much.
We can adjust the margin between the U-V islands here and maybe I'll take this down to point 0 1 and
we can also if we want select all of these U-V islands and press our 9:0 and rotate them around a bit
to if we want all of our door U-V islands going up and down.
But what about that door knob.
Well what we can do now is just select this piece here.
And if we duplicate it shift D and enter now we can use the mesh mirror y global to flip that piece
around and then move it over here.
And put it right on the door on this side.
And look at what's happened.
There isn't any new U-V islands in our U-V map.
In fact if we zoom in here and take a look at say this piece here I'll just select it with U-V Island
selection and then if I hit the G key and move it aside you can see that the U.V. map for the duplicate
door knob has been placed exactly on top of the U-V map for the original.
So in texturing one we automatically texture the other.
You'll see this used quite a bit in game texturing where to maximize the resolution within the 0 to
1 space they will just the map one side of a symmetrical character and then when textures are applied
to that one side they're also applied to the other as well.
All right so now that we have the U-V map for our door we need to think about how we're going to apply
our textures and to do that.
I'll go ahead and use GIMP.
The free open source image editing program to lay down some woodgrain texture and texture for the door
knobs and plate and to do that we'll need a copy of our U-V map here to take into gimp so to export
this U-V map out of Blendr we just need to come down here to Uvas export lay out and here we can choose
a place for our U-V map.
So I'm going to create a folder called textures and in here I will put our door Uvas down here we can
choose what size we want.
Are you the map to be.
I'll go ahead and begin with 2048.
We usually create our textures in powers of two like 2048 or 10:24 or 5:12.
So they can be processed more quickly and things like a game engine and it's good to create your textures
big.
And then if needed be able to save out a lower resolution of them this is better than beginning small
and trying to increase the size of a texture because that would just make it blurry and pixilated.
So I'll go ahead and export this out and in the next video will open up Gimp and begin laying down our
textures.